Few-Shot VQA with Frozen LLMs: A Tale of Two Approaches
Igor Sterner, Weizhe Lin, Jinghong Chen, Bill Byrne
Department of Engineering
University of Cambridge
{is473, wl356, jc2124, wjb31}@cam.ac.uk
Abstract
Two approaches have emerged to input im-
ages into large language models (LLMs). The
first is to caption images into natural language.
The second is to map image feature embed-
dings into the domain of the LLM and pass
the mapped embeddings directly to the LLM.
The majority of recent few-shot multimodal
work reports performance using architectures
that employ variations of one of these two ap-
proaches. But they overlook an important com-
parison between them. We design a controlled
and focused experiment to compare these two
approaches to few-shot visual question answer-
ing (VQA) with LLMs. Our findings indicate
that for Flan-T5 XL, a 3B parameter LLM, con-
necting visual embeddings directly to the LLM
embedding space does not guarantee improved
performance over using image captions. In the
zero-shot regime, we find using textual image
captions is better. In the few-shot regimes, how
the in-context examples are selected determines
which is better.
1 Introduction
A fundamental feature of intelligence is the capa-
bility to integrate multiple modalities. This en-
ables many ambiguities to be reduced and supports
knowledge acquisition. In particular, a fundamen-
tal multimodal task is visual question answering
(VQA). VQA is the task of answering a question
using information from an image. Figure 1 shows
three examples.
How many people
are riding on the
elephant? 2
What color is the
bus?
blue and white
Does this train look
to be in good
working order? no
Figure 1: Examples of visual question answering.
Source: Goyal et al. (2016)
In the quest to integrate the modalities of vision
and language, there has been a substantial effort to
integrate the two dominant architectures in these
fields: large language models (LLMs) and vision
transformers (Alayrac et al., 2022; Li et al., 2023;
Huang et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2021; Chen et al.,
2022). LLMs are a general-purpose interface for
text-to-text tasks (Brown et al., 2020). Vision trans-
formers are able to transform images into a generic
feature representation (Dosovitskiy et al., 2021).
These models have, however, been trained sepa-
rately. This means that the representation of one
can not be used in the other.
To overcome this, Mokady et al. (2021) train a
network to transform the image representation into
the domain of the language representation. They
do so by learning the transformation that maps the
image representation into a representation that gen-
erates an image caption when passed to the LLM.
Tsimpoukelli et al. (2021) append a question when
passing this transformed image representation to
the LLM, for VQA. This approach is visualized in
Figure 2a.
Another approach to VQA is to caption the im-
ages, and pass these captions to the LLM as natural
language alongside a question (Yang et al., 2022;
Guo et al., 2023; Hu et al., 2022; Tiong et al., 2022).
This approach is visualized in Figure 2b
In few-shot VQA, in-context examples are also
passed to the LLM in the prompt. These are sam-
ples of desired behaviour expressed as inputs with
correct responses. Including in-context examples
has been empirically shown to improve few-shot
VQA performance (Liu et al., 2022; Alayrac et al.,
2022).
Recent VQA architectures generally employ a
variation of either the embedding-based or caption-
based approaches. However, a comparison of these
two approaches has been previously overlooked.
Our contribution is a controlled and focused com-
parison of these two approaches. Additionally, we
arXiv:2403.11317v1  [cs.CL]  17 Mar 2024
(a) Embedding-based VQA
(b) Caption-based VQA
Figure 2: Two approaches to input images into LLMs for VQA.
 indicates the model is frozen
conduct an analysis to determine how the method
used to select in-context examples affects the pre-
diction behaviour of the approaches.
2 Background
LLMs are transformer-based models shown to be
capable of performing text-to-text tasks without
task-specific training (Chung et al., 2022). This
includes extractive question–answering, where the
model is prompted to answer a question based on
provided context.
In vision–language research, VQA is a funda-
mental task. One approach is to pass visual infor-
mation to an LLM in the form of image captions
(Yang et al., 2022; Guo et al., 2023; Hu et al., 2022;
Tiong et al., 2022). The VQA task is then recast as
an extractive QA task.
Meanwhile in the field of computer vision, Doso-
vitskiy et al. (2021) present the vision transformer
(ViT). Radford et al. (2021) present a training ob-
jective for the ViT, minimizing a contrastive loss
between encoded images and captions. They dis-
tribute CLIP models capable of transforming im-
ages into generic feature representations.
The primary challenge of integrating LLMs with
ViT image encoders is to align features in the image
and text space. Tsimpoukelli et al. (2021) fine-
tune an image encoder by passing its output into
a frozen LLM. A frozen model has weights that
are not updated during training. They update the
weights of the image encoder using image–caption
training data. They evaluate on the task of VQA
by appending embedded questions to the image
embeddings and passing to an LLM.
Merullo et al. (2023) achieve comparable re-
sults using only a linear mapping between CLIP
(Radford et al., 2021) image and GPT-J (Wang
and Komatsuzaki, 2021) text space. Yi-Lin Sung
(2022) and Eichenberg et al. (2022) add a small
number of trainable parameters to the LLM, called
adapters. These adapters are trainable MLP net-
works inserted into the LLM transformer blocks.
Alayrac et al. (2022) add masked cross-attention
layers in the LLM to ensure each question only
attends to the last set of image embeddings. Li
et al. (2023) propose a system that includes the
prompt question in a querying transformer network.
Both of these systems require vast troves of training
data.
The above systems begin by learning an image
captioning task. It is therefore a natural baseline to
compare their embedding-based VQA approaches
with that of using image captions generated by
the same system. However, none of the aforemen-
tioned systems report such results.
3 Two approaches to VQA
We will now outline our embedding-based and
caption-based approaches to VQA. We keep our
experiment controlled by using the same image fea-
ture representation in both approaches. The only
difference will be whether this visual feature repre-
sentation is first converted into an image caption,
or whether it is passed directly to the LLM.
Both setups use a single trained model. This
model is a ‘mapping network’, trained to bridge an
image encoder and an LLM. The image encoder
and the LLM will be frozen, and the parameters of
the mapping network will be learnt by maximising
the likelihood of target caption token sequences y,
given an input image. Since the image encoder is
frozen, this likelihood is equivalent to the likeli-
hood of the target given the image encoder feature
embedding x. This objective is given in Equation 1,
expanded for an autoregressive language model.
log p(y|x) =
X
l
log p(yl|x, y1:l−1) (1)
1. Image encoder (image to feature embed-
ding) An image encoder encodes the image
pixel value matrix i ∈ RW ×H×3 into a v-
dimensional vector denoted by x.
2. Mapping network (feature embedding to
LLM image representation) A mapping net-
work will map this feature embedding into k
D-dimensional embeddings. Each of these
embeddings is of the same dimensionality as
a single embedded textual token.
3. LLM (image representation to text output)
These embeddings are passed to the LLM,
generating an output token sequence y which
is compared against a groundtruth caption.
Our two approaches to VQA are as follows.
Embedding-based The tokenizer and embedder
of the LLM transform a question intot embeddings.
An image is converted into k LLM embeddings of
the same dimensionality using the image encoder
and mapping network. The mapped image embed-
dings and question embeddings are concatenated,
and together passed to the LLM.
Caption-based For caption-based VQA, the
LLM image embeddings are passed alone to the
LLM to generate an image caption. This textual
image caption is then concatenated with the textual
question, and this prompt is passed to the LLM.
4 Experimental Setup
Models We use Flan-T5 XL (Chung et al., 2022),
a 3B parameter autoregressive encoder–decoder
LLM. We selected this model because it has empir-
ically been shown to perform well with in-context
learning. To encode the images, we use a pre-
trained CLIP ViT-G model (Radford et al., 2021;
Ilharco et al., 2021; Schuhmann et al., 2022). We
bridge these two components with a single hid-
den layer mapping network with 1280-D input, a
hidden layer of size 20 × 2048/2, and 20 2048-D
output embeddings.
Datasets We use the conceptual captions dataset
(Sharma et al., 2018) as training data. From the
3M+ image URLs provided in this dataset, we
found 2.7M to be active.
Training We minimize cross-entropy loss dur-
ing training. We backpropagate losses through
the frozen LLM, updating the mapping network
with the AdamW optimizer (Kingma and Ba, 2014;
Loshchilov and Hutter, 2017). For the optimizer,
we use β = (0 .9, 0.98) and weight decay = 0 .01.
The learning rate grows linearly to 2e-4 for 375
warm-up steps and then decays linearly to zero for
two epochs with a batch size of 32.
In-context example selection Including samples
of desired behaviour, expressed as input with cor-
rect responses in the prompt, has been shown to
improve performance (Yang et al., 2022). This
is called in-context learning. In particular, ‘shots’
refers to the number of samples included.
To find the most similar in-context examples, we
extract CLIP embeddings of the train and validation
VQAv2 images and questions. We will compare
selecting up to four in-context examples randomly
(R), using only question similarity (Q) and joint
(50-50) question and image similarity (Q+I). We
use the inner product as our similarity metric, and
pre-compute in-context examples efficiently using
a FAISS index (Johnson et al., 2019).
Metrics The system is validated few-shot on the
VQA v2 benchmark (Agrawal et al., 2015; Zhang
et al., 2015; Goyal et al., 2016), which includes
214K image–question–answer validation triplets.
We use the official evaluation metric, which cal-
culates the number of exact matches between the
predicted answer and the 10 human-annotated an-
swers. The predicted answer scores if it matches
exactly at least three human annotated answers. We
# shots
0 1 2 4
Frozen 29.5 35.7 - 38.2 (1)
Linear mapping 33.3 39.9 40.8 40.3 (2)
MAGMA 36.9 42.2 43.8 45.4 (3)
(R) 45.9 45.3 45.1 45.3 (4)
Caption-based (Q) 45.9 47.6 48.0 48.5 (5)
(Q+I) 45.9 50.0 50.3 50.8 (6)
(R) 41.4 44.5 43.6 42.5 (7)
Embedding-based (Q) 41.4 40.6 45.7 47.3 (8)
(Q+I) 41.4 50.5 51.8 52.4 (9)
Table 1: Few-shot VQAv2 results
follow recent approaches and evaluate in the open-
ended generation setting (Tsimpoukelli et al., 2021;
Alayrac et al., 2022; Li et al., 2023).
Our setup is implemented using the framework
of Lin and Byrne (2022).
We run each experiment once with a single ran-
dom seed. We test the differences between our
systems, competitors and baselines for significance
with two-tailed paired permutation tests, approxi-
mated by R = 10, 000, with threshold α = 0.01.
Systems, competitors and baselines .
We will compare results from our two ap-
proaches to VQA, embedding-based and caption-
based, with three systems of similar level of data
and computation: Frozen (Tsimpoukelli et al.,
2021), Linear mapping (Merullo et al., 2023) and
MAGMA (Eichenberg et al., 2022). A comparison
with these competitors is a sanity check to validate
the suitability of our experimental setup.
5 Results
Table 1 gives results on the VQAv2 benchmark1.
We can see that our systems pass the sanity check.
Our best results for each of our two approaches
to few-shot VQA (lines 6, 9) outperform all three
competitor systems (lines 1-3) for all number of
shots.
Our results (lines 4-6 vs. lines 7-9) show that
0-shot caption-based VQA is significantly better
(+4.5%) than 0-shot embedding-based VQA. This
is a surprising result, because the same visual rep-
resentation is used in both approaches. The only
difference is that in caption-based VQA, the em-
beddings are first passed to the LLM alone to gen-
1In 0-shot VQA, no in-context examples are included; so
the random (R), question similarity (Q) and question + image
similarity (Q+I) in-context example selection variations of our
approaches are identical. We found all other differences to be
significant (p<0.01).
erate a caption, before being concatenated with the
question. This result is a clear indication that the
caption-based approach to VQA is an important
comparison that should be made for systems that
begin by learning the mapping between image and
text space with an image captioning task.
Our results (line 9) show a large improvement
(+9.1%) between zero and 1-shot embedding-based
VQA: where a single in-context example is in-
cluded. The in-context example appears to demon-
strate the task in a way that has a substantial im-
provement to the VQA capability of the LLM. This
is evidence of the in-context learning approach
working well, enabling our system to adapt to the
task of VQA without task-specific training.
Furthermore, all our results from selecting in-
context examples based on question (lines 5, 8) or
question + image (lines 6, 9) similarity are signif-
icantly better than selecting in-context examples
randomly (lines 4, 7). Giving relevant (similar to
the test question/image) examples is better than giv-
ing random examples of the task. This is additional
evidence that the in-context learning approach is
performing as intended.
In the 1-shot setting, the embedding-based (line
9) approach is better than the caption-based ap-
proach (line 6, +0.5%). This trend continues;
the results improve by small margins, and the
embedding-based approach is slightly better than
using image captions, for 2- and 4-shots. The re-
sults plateau with increasing number of in-context
examples (shots), which aligns with prior works
(Tsimpoukelli et al., 2021; Alayrac et al., 2022).
We explored a range of comparisons between the
caption-based and embedding-based approaches to
compare their prediction behaviour. One way we
did this was by varying how the in-context exam-
ples are selected. Our main finding was that the
two approaches vary in their responsiveness to the
in-context examples.
The most striking result is that of embedding-
based VQA, when in-context examples are selected
based on top question similarity (line 8). Here, two
shots/in-context examples are required to demon-
strate the task suitably; at this point, the improve-
ment is still smaller than before (+4.3%). We find
that the caption-based approach beats embedding-
based VQA (line 5 vs. line 8) for all number of
shots when the in-context example is selected based
only on question similarity.
We additionally explored the accuracy of our sys-
tems in various specific question categories, such
as those that ask for colour or counting informa-
tion. Our analysis reveals that 4-shot VQA with
the embedding-based approach correctly answers
more questions requiring small visual details com-
pared to the caption-based approach (e.g. colour:
+4.2%, counting: +2.7%), while compensating in
straightforward questions (e.g. yes/no: -0.5%). For
complex ‘why’ questions or location ‘where’ ques-
tions, where our systems are weak, both demon-
strate similar prediction behaviour.
6 Limitations
Our findings are applicable for the Flan-T5 XL
LLM, which is not as large as other closed-source
LLMs. Our tale may have been different for these
models. In addition, we learn the mapping between
image and text space using a non-linear network,
rather than other methods such as that presented
by Li et al. (2023). Instead we have presented a
controlled and focused setup, with the intention of
initiating an investigation of the caption-based and
embedding-based approaches to few-shot VQA.
7 Conclusion
In this work, we have presented a focused com-
parison of two approaches to few-shot VQA. A
comparison of these two approaches has been over-
looked in previous work. We learn a non-linear
mapping between the CLIP and Flan-T5 XL em-
bedding space, which enables us to generate both
image captions and an embedding-based LLM im-
age representation from the same system. Our re-
sults indicate that, using this non-linear mapping
and the relatively small frozen LLM, connecting
visual embeddings directly to the LLM embedding
space does not necessarily improve performance
compared to using image captions. We find that
the selection of relevant in-context examples is far
more important. Overall in this work, we hope
to have shown that reporting results with system-
generated captions is an important comparison for
multimodal systems that pass embedding-based vi-
sual representations to LLMs.
References
Aishwarya Agrawal, Jiasen Lu, Stanislaw Antol, Mar-
garet Mitchell, C. Lawrence Zitnick, Devi Parikh,
and Dhruv Batra. 2015. VQA: Visual Question An-
swering. International Journal of Computer Vision,
123:4–31.
Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc,
Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson, Karel
Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katherine Millican, Malcolm
Reynolds, Roman Ring, Eliza Rutherford, Serkan
Cabi, Tengda Han, Zhitao Gong, Sina Samangooei,
Marianne Monteiro, Jacob L Menick, Sebastian
Borgeaud, Andy Brock, Aida Nematzadeh, Sahand
Sharifzadeh, Mikołaj Bi´nkowski, Ricardo Barreira,
Oriol Vinyals, Andrew Zisserman, and Karén Si-
monyan. 2022. Flamingo: a Visual Language Model
for Few-Shot Learning. In Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, volume 35, pages 23716–
23736. Curran Associates, Inc.
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-V oss,
Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child,
Aditya Ramesh, Daniel Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens
Winter, Chris Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Ma-
teusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack
Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec
Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020.
Language Models are Few-Shot Learners. In Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,
volume 33, pages 1877–1901. Curran Associates,
Inc.
Xi Chen, Xiao Wang, Soravit Changpinyo, A. J. Pier-
giovanni, Piotr Padlewski, Daniel M. Salz, Sebas-
tian Goodman, Adam Grycner, Basil Mustafa, Lu-
cas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, Joan Puigcerver,
Nan Ding, Keran Rong, Hassan Akbari, Gaurav
Mishra, Linting Xue, Ashish V . Thapliyal, James
Bradbury, Weicheng Kuo, Mojtaba Seyedhosseini,
Chao Jia, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Carlos Riquelme, An-
dreas Steiner, Anelia Angelova, Xiaohua Zhai, Neil
Houlsby, and Radu Soricut. 2022. PaLI: A Jointly-
Scaled Multilingual Language-Image Model. ArXiv,
abs/2209.06794.
Hyung Won Chung, Le Hou, Shayne Longpre, Barret
Zoph, Yi Tay, William Fedus, Yunxuan Li, Xuezhi
Wang, Mostafa Dehghani, Siddhartha Brahma, Al-
bert Webson, Shixiang Shane Gu, Zhuyun Dai,
Mirac Suzgun, Xinyun Chen, Aakanksha Chowdh-
ery, Alex Castro-Ros, Marie Pellat, Kevin Robinson,
Dasha Valter, Sharan Narang, Gaurav Mishra, Adams
Yu, Vincent Zhao, Yanping Huang, Andrew Dai,
Hongkun Yu, Slav Petrov, Ed H. Chi, Jeff Dean, Ja-
cob Devlin, Adam Roberts, Denny Zhou, Quoc V . Le,
and Jason Wei. 2022. Scaling Instruction-Finetuned
Language Models. ArXiv:2210.11416 [cs].
Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander
Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai,
Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias
Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, Jakob
Uszkoreit, and Neil Houlsby. 2021. An Image
is Worth 16x16 Words: Transformers for Image
Recognition at Scale. ICLR.
Constantin Eichenberg, Sidney Black, Samuel Wein-
bach, Letitia Parcalabescu, and Anette Frank. 2022.
MAGMA – Multimodal Augmentation of Generative
Models through Adapter-based Finetuning. In Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2022, pages 2416–2428, Abu Dhabi, United
Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Yash Goyal, Tejas Khot, Douglas Summers-Stay, Dhruv
Batra, and Devi Parikh. 2016. Making the V in VQA
Matter: Elevating the Role of Image Understanding
in Visual Question Answering. International Journal
of Computer Vision, 127:398–414.
Jiaxian Guo, Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Anthony
Meng Huat Tiong, Boyang Li, Dacheng Tao, and
Steven C. H. Hoi. 2023. From Images to Textual
Prompts: Zero-shot VQA with Frozen Large Lan-
guage Models. ArXiv:2212.10846 [cs].
Yushi* Hu, Hang* Hua, Zhengyuan Yang, Weijia Shi,
Noah A Smith, and Jiebo Luo. 2022. Prompt-
Cap: Prompt-Guided Task-Aware Image Captioning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.09699.
Shaohan Huang, Li Dong, Wenhui Wang, Yaru Hao,
Saksham Singhal, Shuming Ma, Tengchao Lv, Lei
Cui, Owais Khan Mohammed, Qiang Liu, Kriti Ag-
garwal, Zewen Chi, Johan Bjorck, Vishrav Chaud-
hary, Subhojit Som, Xia Song, and Furu Wei. 2023.
Language Is Not All You Need: Aligning Perception
with Language Models. ArXiv, abs/2302.14045.
Gabriel Ilharco, Mitchell Wortsman, Ross Wightman,
Cade Gordon, Nicholas Carlini, Rohan Taori, Achal
Dave, Vaishaal Shankar, Hongseok Namkoong, John
Miller, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Ali Farhadi, and Lud-
wig Schmidt. 2021. Openclip.
Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. 2019.
Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. IEEE
Transactions on Big Data, 7(3):535–547.
Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014. Adam:
A Method for Stochastic Optimization. CoRR,
abs/1412.6980.
Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi.
2023. BLIP-2: bootstrapping language-image pre-
training with frozen image encoders and large lan-
guage models. In International Conference on Ma-
chine Learning.
Weizhe Lin and Bill Byrne. 2022. Retrieval augmented
visual question answering with outside knowledge.
In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages
11238–11254, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Jiachang Liu, Dinghan Shen, Yizhe Zhang, Bill Dolan,
Lawrence Carin, and Weizhu Chen. 2022. What
makes good in-context examples for GPT-3? In
Proceedings of Deep Learning Inside Out (DeeLIO
2022): The 3rd Workshop on Knowledge Extrac-
tion and Integration for Deep Learning Architectures,
pages 100–114, Dublin, Ireland and Online. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. 2017. Decoupled
Weight Decay Regularization. In International Con-
ference on Learning Representations.
Jack Merullo, Louis Castricato, Carsten Eickhoff, and
Ellie Pavlick. 2023. Linearly Mapping from Image
to Text Space. ArXiv:2209.15162 [cs].
Ron Mokady, Amir Hertz, and Amit H. Bermano.
2021. ClipCap: CLIP Prefix for Image Captioning.
ArXiv:2111.09734 [cs].
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sas-
try, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark,
Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learn-
ing Transferable Visual Models From Natural Lan-
guage Supervision. In International Conference on
Machine Learning.
Christoph Schuhmann, Romain Beaumont, Richard
Vencu, Cade W Gordon, Ross Wightman, Mehdi
Cherti, Theo Coombes, Aarush Katta, Clayton
Mullis, Mitchell Wortsman, Patrick Schramowski,
Srivatsa R Kundurthy, Katherine Crowson, Lud-
wig Schmidt, Robert Kaczmarczyk, and Jenia Jitsev.
2022. LAION-5b: An open large-scale dataset for
training next generation image-text models. InThirty-
sixth Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track.
Piyush Sharma, Nan Ding, Sebastian Goodman, and
Radu Soricut. 2018. Conceptual Captions: A
Cleaned, Hypernymed, Image Alt-text Dataset For
Automatic Image Captioning. In Proceedings of the
56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics (V olume 1: Long Papers), pages
2556–2565, Melbourne, Australia. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Anthony Meng Huat Tiong, Junnan Li, Boyang Li, Sil-
vio Savarese, and Steven C.H. Hoi. 2022. Plug-and-
Play VQA: Zero-shot VQA by Conjoining Large Pre-
trained Models with Zero Training. In Findings of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP
2022, pages 951–967, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emi-
rates. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Maria Tsimpoukelli, Jacob Menick, Serkan Cabi,
SM Eslami, Oriol Vinyals, and Felix Hill. 2021. Mul-
timodal few-shot learning with frozen language mod-
els. Proc. Neural Information Processing Systems.
Ben Wang and Aran Komatsuzaki. 2021. GPT-J-
6B: A 6 Billion Parameter Autoregressive Lan-
guage Model. https://github.com/kingoflolz/
mesh-transformer-jax.
Zirui Wang, Jiahui Yu, Adams Wei Yu, Zihang Dai,
Yulia Tsvetkov, and Yuan Cao. 2021. SimVLM: Sim-
ple Visual Language Model Pretraining with Weak
Supervision. ArXiv, abs/2108.10904.
Zhengyuan Yang, Zhe Gan, Jianfeng Wang, Xiaowei Hu,
Yumao Lu, Zicheng Liu, and Lijuan Wang. 2022. An
Empirical Study of GPT-3 for Few-Shot Knowledge-
Based VQA. In AAAI.
Mohit Bansal Yi-Lin Sung, Jaemin Cho. 2022. VL-
Adapter: Parameter-Efficient Transfer Learning for
Vision-and-Language Tasks. In CVPR.
Peng Zhang, Yash Goyal, Douglas Summers-Stay,
Dhruv Batra, and Devi Parikh. 2015. Yin and Yang:
Balancing and Answering Binary Visual Questions.
2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR), pages 5014–5022.