Beyond the Single Camera: Agentic Multi-View Reasoning
in Sports Video Understanding
Kerui Chen1∗ , Jinglu Wang2, Xiaoyi Zhang2, Yan Lu2†
1Zhejiang University2Microsoft Research Asia
Abstract
Recent Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs)
achievestrongperformanceonsingle-viewvideounderstand-
ingbenchmarks.However,sportsvideosinvolvedenseocclu-
sion, rapid motion, and complex interactions that are difficult
to resolve from a single viewpoint. In practice, sports events
arerecordedfrommultiplecameraangles,providingcomple-
mentaryevidenceusedbyreferees.Yet,noexistingbenchmark
evaluatesMLLMsonmulti-viewsportsvideounderstanding.
To address this gap, we introduceSportMV-Bench, a com-
prehensive benchmark built from official match recordings,
through a dedicated pipeline combining LLM-based genera-
tion,MLLM-basedverification,andhumanfilteringtoensure
qualityandconsistency.SportMV-Benchcontains1022multi-
viewvideobundlesand3015question-answerpairsspanning
10sportsacrossthreecategories:Perception-AwareRecogni-
tion (PAR), Rule Event aware Interpretation (REI), and Ad-
judicative Decision Reasoning (ADR). Our analysis shows
that current MLLMs fail to effectively exploit multi-view in-
formation, with the bottlenecks lying in fine-grained visual
perceptionandviewselectionratherthanlogicalreasoningor
domain knowledge. We proposeSportMV-Agent, an agentic
framework that orchestrates an iterative loop of active view
selection, perception tool execution, and evidence-grounded
reasoning, achieving a significant 15.61% relative improve-
ment over the strongest MLLM baseline.
Introduction
Sports video understanding has received significant atten-
tionduetoitswideapplicationsinanalytics(Mackenzieand
Cushion 2013), coaching (Groom and Nelson 2013), offi-
ciating support (Held et al. 2024b,a), content retrieval (Yu
etal.2003),andaudienceengagement(Midogluetal.2024).
Recent Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) (Bai
et al. 2025; Team et al. 2024; a20 2025; Li et al. 2024a;
Chen et al. 2026) demonstrate strong capabilities in video
understanding and reasoning, making them promising for
sports video analysis. However, sports videos pose unique
challenges for MLLMs, such as rapid movements, dense
player interactions, domain-specific rules, and the need for
fine-grained subtle visual cues. Several benchmarks have
been developed to study sports video understanding, such
as SoccerNet (Giancola et al. 2018), Sports-QA (Li et al.
2024b), and multi-sport datasets (Xia et al. 2025, 2024).
While these benchmarks advance holistic understanding of
∗This work was done when K. Chen was an intern at Microsoft
Research Asia.
†Corresponding author.
Figure1:Importanceofmulti-viewperspectivesinsports
understanding.(a) Single views (View 1 & 2) can yield
incorrect judgments (Player #7 out) due to occlusion, while
amoreinformativeview(View 3)revealsthecorrectresult
(Player #23 out). (b) Accurate decisions require aggregating
complementary evidence from multiple views to resolve vi-
sual ambiguities: the attacker fouls an opponent (View 1)
withouttouchingtheball(View 2),awardingthedefensive
team a free kick.
broadcast videos, they typically assume that a single camera
view provides sufficient evidence for question answering.
In real-world, sports events are captured from multiple
viewpointstoprovideacompleteperspectiveforrefereesand
audiences.Occlusioniscommoninsports:playersoftenclus-
terarounddecisivemoments,makingcriticalactionshardto
observefromasingleview.Moreover,athletesmayintention-
allyobscureeventsthroughexaggeratedcontactorsimulated
falls, making single-view evidence not only incomplete but
sometimesmisleading.AsillustratedinFig.1(a),usingonly
View 1orView 2leads to an incorrect out-of-bounds
decision because the decisive touch is occluded, while in-
corporatingView 3reveals the correct outcome. Beyond
occlusion, some queries require combining complementary
evidence across views that may even appear conflicting. For
example, in Fig. 1(b),View 1localizes contact inside the
penaltyarea,whileView 2showsthatthedefenderdidnot
touch the ball. Only by combining both views can the cor-
rect decision be made: a yellow card to attacker, and award
opponents a defensive free kick rather than a penalty. These
examples highlight the importance of multi-view reasoning
for sports video understanding. Professional officiating sys-
tems such as VAR, Instant Replay, and Hawk-Eye already
rely on multi-camera setups for this reason. However, ex-
arXiv:2607.11844v2  [cs.CV]  4 Aug 2026
isting sports QA benchmarks do not evaluate the ability of
MLLMs to reason across multiple views of the same event,
as they provide only single-view inputs.
To fill this gap, we introduceSportMV-Bench, the first
benchmark for multi-view sports video understanding. It
spans 10 different sports and comprises 1022 multi-view
video bundles (each with 2-5 diverse and asynchronous
views) and 3015 QA pairs across three reasoning levels:
Perception-Aware Recognition (PAR), Rule Event aware In-
terpretation (REI), and Adjudicative Decision Reasoning
(ADR). All videos are sourced from official public match
recordings to ensure real-world authenticity. QA pairs are
constructed through a four-stage pipeline combining auto-
matic generation, multimodal verification and human veri-
fication to ensure correctness, consistency with the videos,
and visual answerability.
Through extensive experiments and analysis, we find that
currentMLLMsperformpoorlyandfailtoexploitmulti-view
information effectively. Providing all views jointly improves
only0.9pointsoverarandomsingleview,whereasanchoring
an oracle view yields a 13.4% relative gain, indicating that
decisiveevidenceexistsacrossviewsbutcurrentmodelsfail
toextractit.Moreover,providingannotatedperceptionlabels
improvesaccuracyby+21.72points,highlightingthecritical
role of fine-grained perception in overall performance. We
also observe that chain-of-thought reasoningdegradesper-
formance, and textual domain-specific knowledge provides
little improvement. These findings suggest that the primary
bottleneckliesnotinlogicalreasoningordomainknowledge,
but in visual perception.
Motivatedbythesefindings,weproposeSportMV-Agent,
an agentic multi-view reasoning framework. An orchestra-
tor coordinates an iterative loop of evidence collection and
evidence-groundedreasoning:itactivelyselectsinformative
views, invokes perception tools to extract fine-grained evi-
dence, and accumulates findings until sufficient confidence
is reached. Compared to the baseline (GPT-4.1), SportMV-
Agent improves the overall performance from 59.12% to
68.35%, a relative gain of15.61%.
To sum up, our contributions are as follows:
•We presentSportMV-Bench, the first multi-view
sports video understanding benchmark, consisting of
1022multi-viewvideobundlesand3015QApairsacross
three reasoning levels (PAR, REI, ADR).
•We conduct a comprehensive empirical study revealing
that current MLLMs fail to exploit multi-view evidence,
with the bottleneck in visual perception and view selec-
tion rather than logical reasoning or domain knowledge.
•We proposeSportMV-Agent, an agentic framework
whoseorchestratorcoordinatesactiveviewselection,per-
ceptiontoolexecution,andevidence-groundedreasoning,
with design directly motivated by the empirical findings.
Related Work
Sports understanding benchmarks.Early sports under-
standing datasets primarily focused on action classification
oractionqualityassessmentinspecificsportslikesoccer(Gi-
ancolaetal.2018),basketball(Xuetal.2024),diving(Li,Li,
and Vasconcelos 2018), gymnastics (Shao et al. 2020a) and
figure skating (Liu et al. 2020). Later datasets expanded the
taskfromsimpleactionclassificationtotemporalactionpars-
ing (Shao et al. 2020b; Liu et al. 2021) and spatio-temporal
localization (Xu et al. 2024), and also introduced a wider
variety of sports categories (Li et al. 2021).
With the advent of MLLMs (Liu et al. 2024; Fang et al.
2024;Fuetal.2025b,a;Yueetal.2024),question-answering
(QA)benchmarksemergedasthestandardparadigmforeval-
uatingmultimodalunderstandinginsportsscenarios.Single-
sport datasets include SoccerNet-X Foul (Held et al. 2023)
and SoccerBench (Rao et al. 2025) for recognition in soc-
cer, FSBench (Gao et al. 2025) for scoring in figure skating,
and FineBadminton (He et al. 2025) for rally-level under-
standing in badminton. Other datasets like Sports-QA (Li
et al. 2024b), SPORTU (Xia et al. 2024) and SPORTR (Xia
et al. 2025) extend evaluation to multiple sports, incorporat-
ing higher-level reasoning over rules and tactics. However,
these benchmarks typically offer a single-view video input,
which cannot simulate or evaluate realistic scenarios where
occlusions in one viewpoint necessitate joint reasoning over
multiple views.
Sports understanding methods.Early approaches cast
sports understanding as a classification or regression task,
focusing on action recognition (Shao et al. 2020a; Li et al.
2021),foulclassification(Heldetal.2024b),andactionqual-
ity assessment (Gao et al. 2025; Li, Li, and Vasconcelos
2018; Parmar and Morris 2019). With the development of
MLLMs, recent state-of-the-art models such as Qwen fami-
lies (Bai et al. 2025; Wang et al. 2024), GPT families (Jaech
et al. 2024; Hurst et al. 2024a), and Gemini families (Team
et al. 2024, 2023) show remarkable general capabilities in
sports videos. Many existing efforts treat them as a unified
toolfortacticalanalysis(CaronandMüller2023;Zhangetal.
2025)andrule-basedreasoning(Heldetal.2024c).However,
theseapproachestypicallyoperateonasingleviewpointand
assume that all information required to answer the question
is fully contained within that view. This assumption sim-
plifies the problem compared to real-world sports scenarios,
wherekeyevidenceisoftendistributedacrossmultipleviews
and individualcamera angles maysuffer from occlusion.As
a result, the capabilities of MLLMs in realistic multi-view
settings remain largely untested and underexplored, which
motivates our evaluation of MLLMs on multi-view sports
video understanding.
Sport-MV Benchmark
In this section, we presentSportMV-Bench, a benchmark
for multi-view sports video understanding designed to eval-
uatethecapabilitiesofMLLMsinmulti-viewscenarios.We
detailitsproblemformulation,dataconstructionpipelineand
resulting data statistics.
Problemformulation.Weconsiderthetaskofmulti-view
sports video understanding. LetV={V 1, V2, . . . , VN }de-
noteNvideoscapturingthesamesportseventfromdifferent
camera viewpoints, which may not be temporally synchro-
nized. Given a natural-language questionq, the goal is to
inferthecorrectanswerabyaggregatingevidenceacrossthe
Figure2:OverviewofSportMV-Bench.(a)Thebenchmark
comprisestensportscategoriesandthreetypesofquestions,
each designed to evaluate a different aspect of sports under-
stading. (b) A real-match multi-view video example with its
corresponding three types.
multi-view videos.
Dataset Construction
To construct a reliable and semantically rich QA corpus, we
design a pipeline leveraging LLMs and MLLMs, as illus-
trated in Figure 3, which comprises four stages: data col-
lection,LLM-BasedQAgeneration,multimodalverification
and authoritative human annotations.
Stage1:Datacollection.Wecollectvideosourcesandtheir
correspondingofficialrefereeingdecisionsfrompublicvideo
platforms. To ensure sport diversity, SportMV-Bench spans
tensports:basketball,soccer,cricket,rugby,Americanfoot-
ball, ice hockey, baseball, tennis, volleyball and Australian
football. These sports jointly feature both global and local
viewpoints,exhibitsignificantdiversityacrosscameraangles
and scenes, and involve frequent occlusions with complex
playerinteractions.Acrossallsources,wedeliberatelyprior-
itizecontestedandchallengeplaystomaximizedifficulty.To
obtainmulti-viewobservationsofthesameevent,weemploy
a three-stage pipeline comprising viewpoint-change detec-
tion withPySceneDetect, content and quality filtering using
a vision-language model, and viewpoint clustering based on
DINOv2(Oquabetal.2024)features.Afterstage1,foreach
data instance, we obtain a multi-view video setVand its
associated referee reportR. Notably, these views are not
temporally synchronized, further increasing difficulty by re-
quiring cross-view alignment. More details are provided in
the supplementary material.
Stage 2: LLM-Based QA proposal.Conditioning an
MLLM directly on the multi-view clips for QA synthesis
tends to produce hallucinated or redundant questions an-
chored to salient but non-decisive content. We therefore
ground QA generation in the referee report, an authorita-
tive event-level answer source. Specifically, we prompt an
LLM to act as a referee certification exam setter. For each
report, the LLM proposes multiple-choice questions strictly
grounded in the report text, with a gold answer extracted
verbatim. The stem is anonymized (no team, player, or date
names) to prevent the answer from leaking through surface
cues. Distractors must share the same semantic type as the
gold answer and be minimally contrasting variants drawn
from non-deciding details, preventing shortcuts based on
type mismatch. The prompt forbids external knowledge and
hallucinated entities, and enforces a fixed JSON output con-
tainingthequestion,options,andgoldanswer,denotedasthe
tuple(q,A, a ∗).Eachsynthesizeditemislinkedtoitscorre-
sponding multi-view clips for later multimodal verification.
Stage3:Multimodalverification.Despitetheconstraintsin
Stage2,somesynthesizeditemsstilldeviatefromthereferee
report,areanswerablebycommonsensealone,areunrelated
to the video, or lack sufficient visual evidence. We therefore
employ a strong MLLM (GPT-5 (a20 2025)) as an auditor.
For each candidate tuple(q,A, a∗)with the referee report
Rand multi-view clipsV, the auditor 1) verifies whether
the gold answer is consistent withR; 2) determines whether
the item is answerable by commonsense alone, 3) checks
whether the QA pair is semantically aligned with the video,
and 4) assesses whether the answer can be inferred from
the video. We define a quality score∈[0,10]to quantify
this verification process. Items that fail the consistency or
commonsensecheck,orfallbelowtheconfidencethreshold,
arefilteredout.Toreduceartifacts,theauditisrepeatedthree
timeswiththeviewordershuffled,andanitemmustpassall
three runs to be accepted.
Stage 4: Authoritative manual filtering.Finally, we re-
cruit five expert annotators to review the remaining items
to filter out ambiguous, non-visual, weakly grounded, or ill-
posed questions, and to refine the wording and options so
that the gold answer is clear and unique. The resulting cor-
pus achieves high linguistic and multimodal alignment, pro-
viding a robust basis for evaluating multi-view, fine-grained
visual–textual understanding in sports officiating.
Dataset Statistics
Our final SportMV-Bench consists of3015QA pairs, each
pairing a natural-language question with multi-view clips
of the same event and requiring cross-view evidence ag-
gregation and reasoning to answer. As shown in Fig. 2, we
categorize questions into three types, PAR, REI and ADR,
whichaccountfor35.23%,36.98%,and27.79%ofthecor-
pus, respectively. These categories reflect increasing levels
of reasoning and dependence on multi-view evidence. We
detail each category as follows:
•Perception-Aware Recognition (PAR).Evaluates low-
level perceptual grounding ofwhat happenedacross
views (e.g., tackle, block, push). The focus is on robust
action identification under occlusion, motion blur, or ad-
verseframing,benefitingfromcross-viewcorroboration.
•Rule Event Aware Interpretation (REI).Probes mid-
level, event/rule-sensitive reasoning: the question hinges
on a rule or event-based anchors specified in the query.
The model must localize these anchors in space and time
acrossviewsandthenobtainruleorevent-relatedanswers
about what happens before or after these anchors.
•Adjudicative Decision Reasoning (ADR).Assesses
high-level normative inference by synthesizing multi-
camera views to concludewhat should be called. This
involves localizing the foul context (e.g., inside vs. out-
sidethebox),estimatingseverityandintent,andmapping
thesituationtotheappropriatesanction(yellow/redcard,
free kick, penalty, flagrant) without any explicit hints,
Sports video
LLM-Based QA Proposal Multimodal Verification Manual Filtering
5:18 2nd Quarter (2PT/3PT) 
Replay Center communicated 
with the courtside 
administrator and overturned 
the 3pt fg to a 2pt fg.
Instruction
Question
Answer Choice
Gold Answer
Final 
Benchmark
Foul label
Event caption Foul label
Event caption
{"Offense": "Offense",
"Contact": "With Contact",
"Bodypart": "Under body",
"Action": "Tackling",
     ...,
"Touch Ball": "No" }
Data collection
Verification Criteria
- Referee guidelines
- Commonsense inferable
- Video correlation
- Visual inferable
- Simulate referee 
certification exam
- Follow referee 
report 
 LLM
 MLLM
Segment by 
scene detection
Filtering Criteria
- Referee guidelines
- Commonsense inferable
- Visual inferable
- Answer ambiguity
Filtering
Referee report
Figure 3:Benchmark construction pipeline.We construct the benchmark through four stages. First, we collect paired videos
and official referee reports from public video platforms. Second, we employ a LLM to propose candidate QA pairs based on
event captions and foul annotations, which helps mitigate the hallucination issue in MLLMs arising from redundant video
content. Third, we apply a MLLM to filter these pairs according to criteria such as video–QA consistency and commonsense
verification. Finally, human annotators further refine the dataset by removing ambiguous or unreasonable QA pairs.
thereby rigorously testing cross-view spatiotemporal in-
tegration and rule-grounded decision making.
In summary, SportMV-Bench is the first benchmark that
requires MLLMs to jointly reason across multiple asyn-
chronous camera views of the same sports event. Its three-
levelquestionhierarchy(PAR,REI,ADR)mirrorsthecogni-
tiveprocessofreal-worldsportsofficiating,fromperceiving
actions, to interpreting events under rules, to rendering ad-
judicative decisions.
Benchmark Analysis and Findings
In this section, we establish a baseline evaluation protocol
for MLLMs on SportMV-Bench and conduct a systematic
analysis to diagnose performance bottlenecks.
Baseline Evaluation Protocol
Given the multi-view video setVand questionq, an MLLM
predicts the answerˆaby aggregating evidence across views.
A straightforward baseline treats the multi-view bundle as
a single concatenated input, delegating all view selection
and cross-view fusion to the MLLM. Specifically, we pack
all views with view-identifier tokens and questionqinto a
unified sequenceSand feed it to the MLLM:
ˆa=MLLM(S), S= [q;⟨V 1⟩X 1;. . .;⟨VN⟩X N ],(1)
whereX i denotes uniformly sampled frames from viewVi.
For multiple-choice QA, the prediction follows likelihood
maximization:ˆa= arg max ak∈A logp θ(ak |S). This base-
line imposes no explicit structure for cross-view reasoning;
the MLLM must implicitly identify informative viewpoints,
discountmisleadingperspectives,andintegratecomplemen-
tary cues within its fixed context budget.
We evaluate a broad set of state-of-the-art open-source
and proprietary MLLMs under this protocol. The detailed
experimental setup and full quantitative results are provided
in experiment section. Overall, even the strongest models
perform poorly, revealing substantial challenges in this task.
Bottleneck Analysis
Beyond general video understanding, multi-view sports un-
derstanding introduces two additional challenges: (1) effec-
tive exploitation of multi-view information, and (2) robust
sports-specific reasoning. We analyze these aspects through
controlled experiments and extract insights that guide our
method design.
Setting PAR REI ADR Overall
1-View (Random) 41.73 52.58 27.84 42.35
1-View (Best) 44.41 56.27 32.46 45.91
M-View (Guided) 48.36 59.86 33.21 49.04
M-View (All) 42.63 52.41 29.97 43.26
+ Knowledge 43.59 56.68 31.82 45.43
+ Oracle Tool 88.71 61.09 38.15 64.98
+ COT 39.82 44.53 29.18 39.32
Table1:Analysisofviewconfigurationsanddifferentstrate-
giesonMLLMperformance.The highlightedrowisQwen3-
VL-30Bunderourbaselineevaluationprotocol,andthebot-
tom three rows build on it with different strategies.
CanMLLMseffectivelyleveragemulti-viewinformation?
To examinehow multi-view informationaffects MLLMper-
formance, we evaluate MLLMs under four view configura-
tions that vary in two dimensions: view quantity (single vs.
multiple) and view quality (random vs. best vs. guided).
•1-View(Random):asinglerandomlysampledviewpoint;
•1-View (Best): the most suitable viewpoint for the ques-
tion, annotated by a strong MLLM (GPT-5);
•M-View (All): all available viewpoints provided jointly;
•M-View(Guided):multipleviewsprovided,withexplicit
instruction to prioritize the best view while using others
as auxiliary references.
All configurations follow the baseline evaluation protocol in
Eq. 1, differing only in the active views included inSand in
prompting.WeevaluateQwen3-VL-30B,withresultsshown
in Tab. 1, and observe two key findings:
1)Quantityofviews̸=qualityofinformation.M-View(All)
yields only marginal gains over1-View (Random)and re-
mains substantially worse than1-View (Best). Redundant,
occluded, or misleading angles introduce visual noise that
offsets the benefit of complementary perspectives.
2)Active view selection is critical.M-View (Guided)
achievesthebestperformance.Theoptimalstrategyisnotto
ingest more views, but to selectively focus on and aggregate
the informative ones. Current MLLMs lack explicit mecha-
nisms for autonomous view selection, structured cross-view
aggregation, and evidence-aware reasoning.
What can improve sports-specific reasoning?We fur-
ther examine representative strategies targeting reasoning
Figure 4:Overview of SportMV-Agent.The orchestrator coordinates an iterative loop: at each step it selects views, invokes
perception tools, analyzes evidence reliability, and decides whether to continue or emit the final answer.
bottlenecks:(1)Chain-of-Thought(COT), a widely adopted
strategy for enhancing reasoning in LLMs; (2)Sports-
specific knowledge(SP-Knowledge), which provides do-
main knowledge that the MLLM may lack; and (3)Fine-
grained visual perception(FG-Perception), which sup-
pliesfine-grainedactionandcontactrecognitionandground-
ing information. The effects of these strategies are shown in
Tab. 1. We draw the following three lessons:
1)COT solely cannot improve performance.Despite its
proven effectiveness in many language and vision-language
tasks, COT reasoning surprisingly leads to a decline in ac-
curacyforQwen3-VL-30Bonourbenchmark.Thissuggests
thatincomplexmulti-viewsportsscenes,sequentialreason-
ingwithoutreliablevisualgroundingamplifieshallucination
rather than improving decision quality.
2)Domain knowledge is not the primary bottleneck.We
provide detailed sports-specific guidelines for each option,
generated by GPT-5 to highlight decisive cues. As shown
in Tab. 1, performance gains are negligible, indicating that
conceptual knowledge is not the limiting factor.
3)Fine-grained visual perception is decisive.Whensupplied
with annotated action and contact, performance improves
dramatically.Thisindicatesthatpreciseperceptionofplayer
actions and interactions constitutes a primary bottleneck for
MLLMsinmulti-viewsportsunderstanding.High-levelrea-
soning strategies alone cannot compensate for deficiencies
in low-level perceptual accuracy.
Summary.Our analysis reveals three core bottlenecks for
baseline MLLMs: (1) the inability to autonomously select
informative views, (2) fragile reasoning performance that is
highlysensitivetoperceptualerrors,and(3)insufficientfine-
grainedvisualperception,particularlyforactionrecognition
and contact detection.
SportMV-Agent
As analyzed in the above section, existing MLLMs strug-
gle with multi-view sports understanding. A single forward
pass forces the model to passively process all perspectives
Algorithm 1: SportMV-Agent workflow.
Require:q,V={V 1, . . . , VN },T,π θ
Ensure:Predicted answerˆa
1:V act
0 ← V;E 0 ← ∅;t←1▷initialize
2:whilet≤t max do
3:s t ←(q,V act
t−1,E t−1)▷construct state
4:(H t, ot)←π θ(st)▷generate thought + op.
5:ifsufficient confidence fromH t then
6:returnˆa←o t ▷emit final answer
7:else ifo t isViewSelectthen
8:V act
t ←o t(V)▷select views
9:E t ←π θ(V act
t )▷collect evidence
10:else ifo t isToolExecthen
11: (T act, V tool)←o t(T,V)▷select tool, target view
12:E t ←π θ(T act(V tool))▷collect evidence
13:end if
14:E t ← Et−1 ∪{Et};t←t+1▷accumulate evidence
15:end while
at once, including occlusion and misleading views. We in-
stead adopt an agentic approach:SportMV-Agentactively
decides which view to examine, invokes specialized percep-
tion tools to extract concrete evidence, and iteratively accu-
mulates findings until sufficient confidence is reached.
Overview.As illustrated in Fig. 4, SportMV-Agent takes
as input a questionq, multi-view videosV, and a set of
perception toolsT, and outputs the predicted answerˆa. The
framework consists of an orchestrator that coordinates an
iterative loop ofevidence collectionandevidence-grounded
reasoning, continuing until sufficient evidence is gathered
for a confident prediction.
Orchestration
The orchestratorπ θ serves as the central controller of
SportMV-Agent.ThefullprocedureissummarizedinAlg.1.
It maintains a reasoning statest = (q,V act
t−1,E t−1)compris-
ingthequestion,thecurrentlyactiveviews,andtheevidence
accumulatedfromprevioussteps.Ateachiteration,givens t,
the orchestrator generates a thoughtHt and an operationot.
Ht represents a textual analysis and plan for the next step.
ot is either the final answer or an evidence collection op-
eration for next step, determined by the confidence ofHt.
If the confidence is insufficient, the orchestrator triggers the
evidence-collection operationot to obtain new evidenceEt;
otherwise, it outputs the final answerˆa.
Evidence Collection
Evidence is collected through two complementary opera-
tions, chosen by the orchestrator according to the current
states t:active view selection, which decideswhere to look,
andactive tool execution, which decideswhat to extract.
Active view selection.In complex sporting events, the “op-
timal” view is dynamic and context-dependent. When the
orchestrator determines that the current view suffers from
occlusion, motion blur, or lacks critical detail, it triggers a
view-selection operationo t =ViewSelectto select infor-
mativeanglesV act
t ⊆ V.Thesystemstartswithaccesstothe
full set of available views, denoted asVact
0 =V. Whenever
a view switch occurs, the video segment from the newly se-
lectedviewisintegratedintotheagent’sobservationcontext.
Active tool selection and execution.Fine-grained percep-
tionisdemonstratedtobecriticalformulti-viewsportsunder-
standing.WeequiptheframeworkwithaPerceptionToolbox
Tthat delivers sports-specific expertise asperceptionrather
than text. The orchestrator invokes these tools through the
operationo t =ToolExec, which selects the appropriate
tool and target view based on the current state. The toolbox
isextendableandcurrentlyincludesthreefundamentaltools
designed for sports analysis:
•Action Recognition(T act): outputs a ranked list of ac-
tion names with confidence scores.
•Contact Detection(T con): outputs a binary judgment
of whether physical contact occurs between two players.
•ContactPartDetection(T par):triggeredwhencontact
is detected, outputs the body region involved.
For example, given a football play question, the orchestrator
may start from a global view to identify the foul area. Re-
alizing that the specific action type and physical contact is
obscured, it triggers a view switch to a close-up sideline an-
gle, invokesTact to categorize the type of action, and then
invokesT con to determine the situation of contact before
emitting a final decision.
Experiment
In this section, we evaluate both baseline MLLMs and
our proposed SportMV-Agent on SportMV-Bench. We first
present the main results comparing SportMV-Agent against
state-of-the-art MLLMs, followed by ablation studies that
validate the contribution of each component.
Baseline MLLMs.We evaluate eight state-of-the-art
MLLMs on SportMV-Bench using the protocol in bench-
mark analysis, including open-source models (LLaVA-
Next (Li et al. 2024a), Qwen2.5-VL-72B (Bai et al. 2025),
Qwen3-VL-30B(Team2025),InternVL2.5-38B(Chenetal.
2024), GLM-4.5V (Team et al. 2025), DeepSeek-VL (Wu
et al. 2024)) and proprietary models (GPT-4o (Hurst et al.
2024b), GPT-4.1).
Model PAR REI ADR Overall
LLaVa-Next (Li et al. 2024a)47.18 56.50 32.85 47.43
Qwen2.5-VL-72B (Bai et al. 2025)45.31 53.99 35.75 45.34
Qwen3-VL-30B (Team 2025)42.63 52.41 29.97 43.26
InternVL2.5 (Chen et al. 2024)45.16 56.73 34.42 45.79
GLM-4.5V (Team et al. 2025)48.36 56.95 33.95 48.40
DeepSeek-VL (Wu et al. 2024)32.31 37.46 27.17 32.88
GPT-4o (Hurst et al. 2024b)52.25 59.55 41.80 52.31
GPT-4.1 (Hurst et al. 2024b)58.23 65.99 49.09 59.12
SportMV-Agent 68.57 72.56 62.22 68.35
Table 2: Quantitative comparisons of the existing state-of-
the-artMLLMsontheSportMV-Bench.Thebestandsecond
best results areboldand underlined . All the numbers are
presented in %.
Implementation details.Videos are processed at 2 fps. We
report exact-match accuracy averaged over three runs. Each
model receives the same prompt and outputs the answer
within<answer>...</answer>tags, parsed via regex
(withgpt-4.1-miniasfallback).InSportMV-Agent,GPT-4.1
serves as the orchestrator, while Qwen2.5-VL-72B imple-
ments the perception tools, returning top-3 predictions with
confidencescores.Additionaldetailsareprovidedinthesup-
plementary material.
Main Result
We report the main quantitative results in Tab. 2. Among
all the baseline MLLMs, GPT-4.1 achieves the best per-
formance at 59.12%, while GLM-4.5V is the strongest
open-source model (48.40%), leaving a substantial gap be-
tween open- and closed-source models. Notably, models
with strong general video understanding capabilities, such
as Qwen3-VL-30B, show a performance drop on our multi-
viewbenchmark,highlightingtheuniquechallengesofmulti-
perspective sports reasoning. A category-wise results reveal
that most models excel in REI but struggle with PAR and
ADR, with average performance gaps of about 8.5% and
19.3%, respectively. As discussed in benchmark analysis,
REI often depends on a single decisive cue, whereas PAR
is hindered by severe occlusions and ADR requires inte-
grating evidence across multiple viewpoints together with
rule-basedreasoning.SportMV-Agent,usingGPT-4.1asthe
orchestrator, significantly boosts performance from 59.12%
to68.35%,arelativeimprovementof15.61%.Thisvalidates
that the agentic design, effectively bridges the multi-view
reasoning gap that standard MLLMs fail to address.
AqualitativecomparisonwiththeCOTbaselineisshown
in Fig. 5. COT suffers from visual error accumulation,
whereas SportMV-Agent actively selects the most informa-
tive view to capture critical details and reach the correct de-
cision. This example demonstrates how view switching and
toolinvocationmitigatesocclusionandimprovesmulti-view
evidence integration.
Ablation Study
We conduct ablation studies to evaluate the contributions of
key components in SportMV-Agent, summarized in Tab. 3.
The performance of SportMV-Agent is shown in Row 6.
Figure 5:Qualitative example.Comparison between the reasoning outputs of SportMV-Agent and the COT baseline. The
COT strategy suffers from visual error accumulation: due to occlusions inView 1andView 2, it fails to consider the critical
evidence visible inView 3, incorrectly classifying the shot as a 3-pointer. In contrast, SportMV-Agent actively selects the most
informative viewpoint (View 3), capturing the player’s foot-on-line detail. By combining view selection with perception tools,
the framework correctly identifies the event as a 2-point field goal without foul. Key clues are highlighted inyellow, view
analysis inblue, tool perception ingreen.
Orchestrator Tool Top-K VSPAR REI ADR Overall
1 GPT-4.1 - - - 58.23-10.3465.99-6.5749.09-13.1359.12-9.23
2 GPT-4o Qwen Top-3✓ 57.44-11.1365.30-7.2646.01-16.2157.36-10.99
3 GPT-4.1 Qwen Top-3× 61.37-7.20 64.54-8.0253.69-8.53 60.63-7.72
4 GPT-4.1 GPT-4.1 Top-3✓71.43+2.8671.95-0.6161.48-0.74 68.76+0.41
5 GPT-4.1 Qwen Top-1✓ 67.97-0.60 70.17-2.3957.33-4.89 66.18-2.17
6 GPT-4.1 Qwen Top-3✓ 68.57 72.56 62.22 68.35
Table 3: Ablation study on the key elements in SportMV-
Agent.TheVScolumnindicateswhethertheframeworkuses
active view selection. Red/green numbers indicate improve-
ment/decline relative to our implementation of SportMV-
Agent (row6).
Impact of the orchestrator model.As shown in Row 2, re-
placingGPT-4.1withthelesscapableGPT-4oastheorches-
tratorresultsinaperformancedropof10.99%,underscoring
the critical role of a strong reasoning backbone for effective
evidence-grounded multi-view understanding.
Impact of active view selection.As shown in Row 3, dis-
abling the view switching module leads to a performance
drop of 7.72%. By actively switching to viewpoints with
fewerocclusions,theorchestratorprovideshigher-qualityvi-
sual inputs for perception tools, thereby reducing perceptual
ambiguity and limiting error propagation. This observation
is consistent with the view-selection bottleneck revealed in
our benchmark analysis.
Impact of perception tool models.As shown in Row 4, re-
placingtheQwenperceptiontoolwithGPT-4.1yieldsonlya
marginal overall improvement of 0.41%. Only the PAR cat-
egory that focuses more on perception improves by 2.86%,
while the other two categories even decline slightly. This
suggeststhattheframeworkisrobusttothechoiceofpercep-
tionmodelsandcanleveragemorecost-effectivealternatives
without significant loss in performance.
Robustness to tool response noise.As shown in Row 5, re-
stricting the retrieved results from top-3 candidates to top-1
results leads to a performance drop of 2.17%. This suggests
that the framework possesses an inherent self-correction
mechanism; by providing a broader candidate set, the or-
chestrator’s evidence analysis can filter out noise and rectify
potential retrieval errors.
Conclusion
In this paper, we introduce SportMV-Bench, the first multi-
viewbenchmarkdesignedtoevaluateMLLMsonmulti-view
sports video understanding. SportMV-Bench is built from
real-worldsportsmatchvideos,covers10differentsportsand
threeprimaryquestiontypes,andcontains3015QApairsthat
have been dual filtered by an MLLM and human annotators.
Experimentsrevealthatcurrentmodelsoftenfailtoselectde-
cisiveviewpoints,performpreciseperception,andaggregate
complementaryevidence,leadingtolargegapsinmulti-view
sportsunderstanding.Toaddressthesechallenges,wepresent
SportMV-Agent,anagenticframeworkequippedwithanac-
tive view selection mechanism and the ability to invoke var-
ious perception tools. We hope this challenging benchmark
will foreground the importance of multi-view evidence in
sports videos and promote robust multi-view reasoning for
sports understanding in real-world applications.
References
2025. GPT-5 System Card OpenAI.
Bai,S.;Chen,K.;Liu,X.;Wang,J.;Ge,W.;Song,S.;Dang,
K.; Wang, P.; Wang, S.; Tang, J.; et al. 2025. Qwen2. 5-vl
technical report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.13923.
Caron, M.; and Müller, O. 2023. TacticalGPT: uncovering
the potential of LLMs for predicting tactical decisions in
professional football. InStatsBomb Conference, 1–11.
Chen, K.; Wang, J.; Zhang, J.; Li, M.; Lu, Y.; and
Fan, H. 2026. Scaling Video Understanding via Com-
pact Latent Multi-Agent Collaboration.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2605.00444.
Chen,Z.;Wang,W.;Cao,Y.;Liu,Y.;Gao,Z.;Cui,E.;Zhu,J.;
Ye,S.;Tian,H.;Liu,Z.;etal.2024. Expandingperformance
boundaries of open-source multimodal models with model,
data,andtest-timescaling.arXivpreprintarXiv:2412.05271.
Fang, X.; Mao, K.; Duan, H.; Zhao, X.; Li, Y.; Lin, D.; and
Chen, K. 2024. Mmbench-video: A long-form multi-shot
benchmark for holistic video understanding.Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 37: 89098–89124.
Fu,C.;Chen,P.;Shen,Y.;Qin,Y.;Zhang,M.;Lin,X.;Yang,
J.;Zheng,X.;Li,K.;Sun,X.;etal.2025a. MME:Acompre-
hensiveevaluationbenchmarkformultimodallargelanguage
models. InThe Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks
Track.
Fu, C.; Dai, Y.; Luo, Y.; Li, L.; Ren, S.; Zhang, R.; Wang,
Z.; Zhou, C.; Shen, Y.; Zhang, M.; et al. 2025b. Video-
mme: The first-ever comprehensive evaluation benchmark
of multi-modal llms in video analysis. InProceedings of
the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference,
24108–24118.
Gao, R.; Liu, X.; Hu, Z.; Xing, B.; Xia, B.; Yu, Z.; and
Kälviäinen, H. 2025. Fsbench: A figure skating benchmark
for advancing artistic sports understanding. InProceedings
oftheComputerVisionandPatternRecognitionConference,
13595–13605.
Giancola,S.;Amine,M.;Dghaily,T.;andGhanem,B.2018.
Soccernet: A scalable dataset for action spotting in soccer
videos. InProceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition workshops, 1711–1721.
Groom,R.;andNelson,L.2013. TheApplicationofVideo-
BasedPerformanceAnalysisintheCoachingProcess1:The
coachsupportingathletelearning. InRoutledgehandbookof
sports coaching, 96–107. Routledge.
He, X.; Liu, W.; Ma, S.; Liu, Q.; Ma, C.; and Wu, J.
2025. FineBadminton: A Multi-Level Dataset for Fine-
Grained Badminton Video Understanding.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2508.07554.
Held, J.; Cioppa, A.; Giancola, S.; Hamdi, A.; Devue, C.;
Ghanem, B.; and Van Droogenbroeck, M. 2024a. Towards
AI-powered video assistant referee system for association
football.arXiv e-prints, arXiv–2407.
Held, J.; Cioppa, A.; Giancola, S.; Hamdi, A.; Ghanem, B.;
and Van Droogenbroeck, M. 2023. VARS: Video assistant
referee system for automated soccer decision making from
multipleviews. InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 5086–5097.
Held, J.; Itani, H.; Cioppa, A.; Giancola, S.; Ghanem, B.;
and Van Droogenbroeck, M. 2024b. X-vars: Introducing ex-
plainabilityinfootballrefereeingwithmulti-modallargelan-
guagemodels. InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 3267–3279.
Held, J.; Itani, H.; Cioppa, A.; Giancola, S.; Ghanem, B.;
and Van Droogenbroeck, M. 2024c. X-vars: Introducing ex-
plainabilityinfootballrefereeingwithmulti-modallargelan-
guagemodels. InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 3267–3279.
Hurst, A.; Lerer, A.; Goucher, A. P.; Perelman, A.; Ramesh,
A.; Clark, A.; Ostrow, A.; Welihinda, A.; Hayes, A.; Rad-
ford, A.; et al. 2024a. Gpt-4o system card.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276.
Hurst, A.; Lerer, A.; Goucher, A. P.; Perelman, A.; Ramesh,
A.; Clark, A.; Ostrow, A.; Welihinda, A.; Hayes, A.; Rad-
ford, A.; et al. 2024b. Gpt-4o system card.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276.
Jaech, A.; Kalai, A.; Lerer, A.; Richardson, A.; El-Kishky,
A.; Low, A.; Helyar, A.; Madry, A.; Beutel, A.; Carney,
A.; et al. 2024. Openai o1 system card.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.16720.
Li, F.; Zhang, R.; Zhang, H.; Zhang, Y.; Li, B.; Li, W.; Ma,
Z.; and Li, C. 2024a. Llava-next-interleave: Tackling multi-
image, video, and 3d in large multimodal models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.07895.
Li, H.; Deng, A.; Ke, Q.; Liu, J.; Rahmani, H.; Guo, Y.;
Schiele, B.; and Chen, C. 2024b. Sports-qa: A large-scale
video question answering benchmark for complex and pro-
fessional sports.arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.01505.
Li, Y.; Chen, L.; He, R.; Wang, Z.; Wu, G.; and Wang, L.
2021. Multisports: A multi-person video dataset of spatio-
temporally localized sports actions. InProceedings of the
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision,
13536–13545.
Li, Y.; Li, Y.; and Vasconcelos, N. 2018. Resound: Towards
action recognition without representation bias. InProceed-
ingsoftheEuropeanconferenceoncomputervision(ECCV),
513–528.
Liu, S.; Liu, X.; Huang, G.; Feng, L.; Hu, L.; Jiang, D.;
Zhang, A.; Liu, Y.; and Qiao, H. 2020. Fsd-10: a dataset
for competitive sports content analysis.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2002.03312.
Liu, S.; Zhang, A.; Li, Y.; Zhou, J.; Xu, L.; Dong, Z.; and
Zhang, R. 2021. Temporal segmentation of fine-gained se-
mantic action: A motion-centered figure skating dataset. In
ProceedingsoftheAAAIconferenceonartificialintelligence,
volume 35, 2163–2171.
Liu, Y.; Duan, H.; Zhang, Y.; Li, B.; Zhang, S.; Zhao, W.;
Yuan,Y.;Wang,J.;He,C.;Liu,Z.;etal.2024. Mmbench:Is
your multi-modal model an all-around player? InEuropean
conference on computer vision, 216–233. Springer.
Mackenzie, R.; and Cushion, C. 2013. Performance analy-
sis in football: A critical review and implications for future
research.Journal of sports sciences, 31(6): 639–676.
Midoglu, C.; Sabet, S. S.; Sarkhoosh, M. H.; Majidi, M.;
Gautam, S.; Solberg, H. M.; Kupka, T.; and Halvorsen, P.
2024. Ai-basedsportshighlightgenerationforsocialmedia.
InProceedings of the 3rd Mile-High Video Conference, 7–
13.
Oquab, M.; Darcet, T.; Moutakanni, T.; Vo, H.; Szafraniec,
M.; Khalidov, V.; Fernandez, P.; Haziza, D.; Massa, F.; El-
Nouby, A.; et al. 2024. Dinov2: Learning robust visual fea-
tures without supervision.Transactions on Machine Learn-
ing Research Journal.
Parmar, P.; and Morris, B. 2019. Action quality assessment
across multiple actions. In2019 IEEE winter conference on
applicationsofcomputervision(WACV),1468–1476.IEEE.
Rao, J.; Li, Z.; Wu, H.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, Y.; and Xie, W.
2025. Multi-agent system for comprehensive soccer under-
standing. InProceedings of the 33rd ACM International
Conference on Multimedia, 3654–3663.
Shao, D.; Zhao, Y.; Dai, B.; and Lin, D. 2020a. Finegym:
A hierarchical video dataset for fine-grained action under-
standing. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, 2616–2625.
Shao, D.; Zhao, Y.; Dai, B.; and Lin, D. 2020b. Intra-and
inter-action understanding via temporal action parsing. In
ProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFconferenceoncomputervision
and pattern recognition, 730–739.
Team,G.;Anil,R.;Borgeaud,S.;Alayrac,J.-B.;Yu,J.;Sori-
cut, R.; Schalkwyk, J.; Dai, A. M.; Hauth, A.; Millican, K.;
et al. 2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805.
Team, G.; Georgiev, P.; Lei, V. I.; Burnell, R.; Bai, L.;
Gulati, A.; Tanzer, G.; Vincent, D.; Pan, Z.; Wang, S.;
et al. 2024. Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understand-
ing across millions of tokens of context.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.05530.
Team,Q.2025.Qwen3TechnicalReport.arXiv:2505.09388.
Team, V.; Hong, W.; Yu, W.; et al. 2025. Glm-4.5 v and
glm-4.1 v-thinking: Towards versatile multimodal reason-
ing with scalable reinforcement learning.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2507.01006.
Wang, P.; Bai, S.; Tan, S.; Wang, S.; Fan, Z.; Bai, J.; Chen,
K.; Liu, X.; Wang, J.; Ge, W.; et al. 2024. Qwen2-vl: En-
hancing vision-language model’s perception of the world at
any resolution.arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12191.
Wu, Z.; Chen, X.; Pan, Z.; Liu, X.; Liu, W.; Dai,
D.; Gao, H.; Ma, Y.; Wu, C.; Wang, B.; et al. 2024.
Deepseek-vl2: Mixture-of-experts vision-language models
for advanced multimodal understanding.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.10302.
Xia, H.; Ge, H.; Zou, J.; Choi, H. W.; Zhang, X.; Suradja,
D.; Rui, B.; Tran, E.; Jin, W.; Ye, Z.; et al. 2025. SportR: A
BenchmarkforMultimodalLargeLanguageModelReason-
ing in Sports.arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.06499.
Xia, H.; Yang, Z.; Zou, J.; Tracy, R.; Wang, Y.; Lu, C.; Lai,
C.; He, Y.; Shao, X.; Xie, Z.; et al. 2024. Sportu: A com-
prehensive sports understanding benchmark for multimodal
large language models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.08474.
Xu, J.; Zhao, G.; Yin, S.; Zhou, W.; and Peng, Y. 2024.
Finesports: A multi-person hierarchical sports video dataset
for fine-grained action understanding. InProceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 21773–21782.
Yu,Y.;Liu,H.;Wang,H.;andZhou,D.2003. Content-based
TVsportsvideoretrievalusingmultimodalanalysis.InThird
InternationalSymposiumonMultispectralImageProcessing
and Pattern Recognition, volume 5286, 962–967. SPIE.
Yue, X.; Ni, Y.; Zhang, K.; Zheng, T.; Liu, R.; Zhang, G.;
Stevens,S.;Jiang,D.;Ren,W.;Sun,Y.;etal.2024. Mmmu:
A massive multi-discipline multimodal understanding and
reasoning benchmark for expert agi. InProceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 9556–9567.
Zhang, J.; Han, D.; Han, S.; Li, H.; Lam, W.-K.; and Zhang,
M. 2025. ChatMatch: Exploring the potential of hybrid
vision–language deep learning approach for the intelligent
analysis and inference of racket sports.Computer Speech &
Language, 89: 101694.
Beyond the Single Camera: Agentic
Multi-View Reasoning in Sports Video
Understanding
Supplementary Material
In this supplementary material, we present the following:
•Discussion of MLLM-Based QA Generation
•More Qualitative Example
•More Implementation Details
•More Data Construction Details
•Dataset QA Examples
Discussion of MLLM-Based QA Generation
As mentioned in the main paper, using MLLMs as a QA
generator can yield undesirable items once visual input is
introduced. Beyond the failure mode discussed in the main
paper, we observe three additional types:
•Hallucinated Answer Choice.The MLLM sometimes
misperceives the visual scene, and such erroneous vi-
sual information is mixed with the correct signals from
the referee report, giving rise to spurious but plausible
answer options. As shown in Fig. 1, the referee report
clearly labels the decision as a free kick. However, after
incorporating visual information, the MLLM incorrectly
introducesspuriousevents(e.g.,aholdingfoulinthecon-
fused image) into the options, resulting in no candidate
corresponding to the true decision.
•Easily Answerable Item.Some questions are supposed
to require first perceiving the video and then reasoning
over the context. However, the MLLM may directly in-
clude the information that should be visually perceived
in the question, making the resulting item overly sim-
ple. As shown in Fig. 2, although the correct answer is
a sliding tackle, the MLLM explicitly encodes the ob-
served visual cue (“defender slide”) in the question. This
causes the question to be trivial and easily answerable
even without watching the video. Meanwhile, when we
usethesameMLLM(GPT-5)tobothgenerateandanswer
the QA pairs, it solves almost all questions correctly. We
hypothesize that this is because constraining the MLLM
to produce visually verifiable questions encourages it to
generate relatively simple items whose answers lie well
within GPT-5’s existing capabilities, thereby failing to
probe the model’s unknown weaknesses or more chal-
lenging failure modes.
•General Video Question.The introduction of visual in-
formation may lead the MLLM to generate overly gen-
eral questions that can be answered without any sports-
specificunderstanding,whichismisalignedwithoureval-
uation objective. As shown in Fig. 4, the generated ques-
tion asks about the phase of the NBA season, which can
beanswereddirectlyfromthescoreboardinview1.How-
ever, this question is unrelated to sports knowledge and
thus misaligned with our evaluation goal.
Which offense category best applies to this infringement?
A:Direct free kick for holding an opponent.
B:Penalty kick for tripping an opponent..
C:No offense; fair challenge.
D:Deliberate handball resulting in a direct free kick.
View 1View 2
Confused Image
Figure 1: Hallucinated Answer Choice Example. The direct
freekickisactuallycausedbyaslidingtackle,buttheMLLM
introduceswrongvisualinformationintotheoptions,sonone
of the options is correct.
As the Manchester United attacker cuts inside near the right edge 
of the penalty area, the Arsenal defender slides and clips the 
attacker’ s leg with no clear ball contact. Which action 
classification best describes the defender’ s challenge in the clip?
A:Aerial challenge.
B:Standing tackle.
C:Sliding tackle.
D:Goalkeeper’s challenge with hands.
View 1View 2
Figure 2: Easily Answerable Item Example. The key cue
“slide” already appears in the question, so the MLLM can
easilyproducethecorrectanswerwithoutrealunderstanding,
which is undesirable for evaluation.
More Qualitative Example
In this section, we provide a qualitative comparison result
(Fig. 3) in addition between our SportMV-Agent and the
COT strategy. As illustrated in Fig. 3, CoT fails to provide
a correct ruling for this complex ADR case. A closer in-
spectionoftheCoTreasoningprocessrevealsthatitslackof
dynamic viewpoint switching leads it to overlook the illegal
contact initiated by the offensive player in View 3. In con-
trast, SportMV-Agent successfully identifies this infraction
bystrategicallyswitchingperspectivesandinvokingspecial-
ized contact-detection tools. By capturing the upper-body
contact (specifically at the neck) and synthesizing informa-
tion across multiple views, our method correctly classifies
the incident as an offensive foul in accordance with official
regulations.
More Implementation Details
As mentioned in the main paper, we leverage Qwen2.5-VL-
72B (Bai et al. 2025) as the action recognition tool, contact
detectiontoolandcontactpartdetectiontoolinourproposed
agenticframework.Theoutputoftheactionrecognitionand
contact part detection tool comprises the Top-3 retrieval re-
sults and their corresponding confidence scores. In this sec-
tion, we will provide more details. For action recognition,
we restrict the model’s output space to the predefined action
taxonomiesoftherespectivedatasets.Specifically,forsoccer
tasks, the model is constrained to the action classes defined
inSoccerNet(Giancolaetal.2018);forbasketballtasks,itis
limited to the categories within FineSports(Xu et al. 2024).
Thisdefinitionofactionsetsiscomprehensiveenoughforthe
relevant sports categories, effectively preventing ’open-set’
hallucinations and facilitating a more objective evaluation
ofthereasoningpipeline.Forthecontactpartdetectiontool,
weemployahierarchicalclassificationstrategy.Themodelis
Figure3:Qualitativeexample.ComparisonbetweenthereasoningoutputsofSportMV-AgentandtheCOTbaseline.TheCOT
strategy suffers from visual missing: it fails to consider the critical evidence visible inView 3, incorrectly classifying the foul
as a defensive shooting foul. In contrast, SportMV-Agent actively selects the most informative viewpoint (View 3), capturing
theoffensiveplayer’sillegalcontactwiththedefender’sneck.Bysynthesizingthiswithconsistentobservationsofthedefender’s
legal verticality and positioning across other views, SportMV-Agentaccurately concludes an offensive foul.
Based on the given videos, during which phase of the NBA season 
is this game being played?
A:Late regular-season game fighting for playoff seeding.
B:Eastern Conference Play-In Tournament.
C:Eastern Conference Finals, Game 1.
D:Eastern Conference First-Round playoff game.
View 1View 2
Figure 4: General Video Question Example. The question
and options are all correct, but is unrelated to the sports
knowledge.
requiredtofirstcategorizethecontactaseitherupperbodyor
underbodybeforespecifyingtheexactanatomicalpart.This
coarse-to-fineapproachreducesinitialsearchcomplexityand
minimizes fine-grained confusion, mirroring the systematic
observation process of professional referees.
More Data Construction Details
Video Sources Collection
SportMV-Bench is built fromofficiating-review(replay)
broadcasts. Our key observation is that, to adjudicate a con-
tested play, every major sport operates an official video-
reviewprotocolthatreplaysthesamedecisivemomentfrom
Sport Official video-review source
Basketball NBA Replay Center
Soccer Video Assistant Referee (VAR)
Cricket Decision Review System (DRS)
Rugby Television Match Official (TMO)
American football Instant Replay review
Ice hockey NHL Situation Room review
Baseball MLB Replay Review
Tennis Hawk-Eye challenge
Volleyball Video Challenge System
Australian football AFL Score Review
Table1:Officialvideo-reviewmechanismusedasthemulti-
view source for each of the ten sports in SportMV-Bench.
several broadcast cameras and announces an authoritative
ruling. Such broadcasts are thus an ideal source of multi-
viewdata:asingleclipalreadycontainsthesameeventfrom
multipleangles,togetherwithaground-truthdecisionthatwe
lateruseastheanswersourceforQAconstruction(Stage2).
Tab.1liststhereviewmechanismwetargetforeachoftheten
sports. Basketball clips are collected from the NBA official
replayarchive,soccerclipsareadoptedfromSoccerNet(Gi-
ancolaetal.2018),andtheremainingeightsportsarecrawled
Figure 5:QA examples from SportMV-Bench.We show four examples drawn from baseball, volleyball, cricket, and rugby.
Eachexamplepairsaquestionanditsfouransweroptionswiththecorrespondingmulti-viewclips.Derivingthecorrectanswer
requires aggregating evidence across cameras rather than relying on a single view.
from a public video platform (YouTube).
Crawling procedure.For each of the eight crawled sports,
we design a set ofevent-levelsearch queries that target
single-eventreviewclipsratherthanlongcompilations,e.g.,
“cricketDRSreviewoverturnedoutdecision”,“rugbyTMO
try or no try”, and“tennis Hawk-Eye challenge ball in or
out”. For every query, candidate videos are retrieved and
filtered on the fly by three complementary rules:
•Duration window.We keep only clips whose length
matches a typical single-event review, using a per-sport
window of15–45s for fast reviews (cricket, rugby, ten-
nis, Australian football) and15–90s for longer replay
segments (American football, ice hockey, baseball, vol-
leyball). This removes both trivially short junk and hour-
long compilations, talks, or full matches.
•Positive title requirement.A candidate is retained only
if its title matches a per-sport keyword whitelist cover-
ing the sport name and its officiating jargon (e.g.DRS,
TMO,VAR,Hawk-Eye,situation room,score
review).Thisisourprimaryanti-driftguard,preventing
cross-sport contamination such as an American-football
query returning soccer VAR clips.
•Blocklist.We reject titles matching an explainer/com-
pilation blocklist (e.g.,explainer,top 10,compilation,
reaction,pressconference)andvideo-gamefootage(e.g.,
Madden,2K,FIFA), which otherwise leak in when gen-
uine in-sport review clips are scarce.
All retrieved videos are downloaded at up to 720p, dedupli-
catedacrossrunsviaaglobaldownloadarchive,andcapped
per sport to maintain balance. For each clip, we retain the
official decision, together with its metadata (title, uploader,
anddescriptionrecordingtheverdict),asauthoritativetextual
groundtruth.Allmaterialisusedstrictlyfornon-commercial
academic research.
Multi-View Segmentation and Filtering.
Since review footage interleaves distinct viewpoints of the
same action within a single continuous stream, we design a
three-step procedure to recover a clean set of camera view-
points.(i) Shot segmentation.We apply shot-boundary de-
tection to partition each review sequence into consecutive
shots.(ii) Content filtering.Broadcast streams are heav-
ilyinterleavedwithnon-actioncontent,suchasscoreboards,
graphics,decisioncards,andtightclose-upsofplayersorref-
erees; treating every shot as a viewpoint therefore severely
over-counts.Withasinglevision-languagemodel(GPT-4.1)
call per clip, we classify the representative frame of every
shotasgame,close-uporgraphic,and,forgameshots,addi-
tionallyassignacoarsecamera-viewpointlabel(e.g.,broad-
case wide,high behind goal,sideline). We retain only game
shots and discard all graphic and close-up shots.(iii) View-
point clustering.As the broadcast repeatedly cuts back and
forth between the same cameras, multiple shots may corre-
spondtoanidenticalviewpoint.WeextractDINOv2features
from the retained shots and perform agglomerative cluster-
ing to merge visually redundant shots, yielding the set of
genuinely distinct camera viewpoints. Only instances with
at least two distinct viewpoints are kept as valid multi-view
samples,whilesingle-viewinstancesarediscarded.Notably,
the resulting multi-view clips for a given event are not tem-
porally synchronized, which further increases task difficulty
by requiring the model to establish correspondence across
unaligned views.
Human Filtering and Refining
The automatic pipeline (Stages 1–3) already removes most
low-quality items, but a small fraction of QA pairs remain
ambiguous,weaklygrounded,oranswerablewithoutwatch-
ing the videos. We therefore conduct a final round of expert
human filtering and refinement.
Annotators.Werecruitfiveannotatorswithpriorexperience
in the corresponding sports and their officiating rules. Be-
fore annotation, all annotators are given a unified guideline
describing the three question types (PAR, REI, ADR), the
definition of a valid multi-view question, and the reasons an
item should be rejected.
Review protocol.Each item is presented together with its
question, four options, and the associated multi-view clips.
An annotator first attempts to answer the question from the
videos alone, and then judges the item against four criteria:
•Visualanswerability.Thecorrectanswermustbederiv-
able from the multi-view clips, not from commonsense
or textual priors.
•Grounding and uniqueness.The gold answer must be
consistent with the official ruling, and exactly one option
should be correct.
•Clarity.The question and options must be unambiguous
and free of leaking cues.
For each item, an annotator eitherkeeps,edits, ordiscards
it.Editingincludesrephrasingthequestionforneutralityand
clarity, and revising distractors so that they remain plausi-
ble yet clearly incorrect. To ensure reliability, every item is
reviewed by at least two annotators, and an item is retained
only when they agree; disagreements are resolved by a third
annotator. This stage removes a further13.81%of the can-
didate items and refines the wording of many others, yield-
ing the final 3015 QA pairs. The resulting corpus exhibits
high linguistic quality and multimodal alignment, provid-
ing a reliable basis for evaluating multi-view, fine-grained
visual-textual understanding in sports officiating.
Dataset QA Examples
To provide a more intuitive understanding of SportMV-
Bench, Fig. 5 presents representative QA examples in dif-
ferent sports. Each example pairs a question and four an-
swer options (with the correct answer highlighted) with its
multi-view clips. Answering correctly requires aggregating
evidenceacrosscamerasratherthanrelyingonasingleview.